Lekuemia Classification and detection Using DL
In the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a type of serious blood cancer, an early and accurate diagnosis is critical. Deep learning is one possible avenue for fully automated medical image analysis with highly accurate disease diagnosis and classification. This work demonstrates identification and classification of leukemia types from blood cell images using a deep learning architecture. The approach utilizes a transfer learning-based model based on an EfficientNetB3, a convolutional neural network that has already been trained and optimized for image recognition tasks. To adapt this model for multi-class categorization of leukemia subtypes, both benign and malignant, it is fine-tuned by adding unique classification layers. Data is further pre-processed and augmented using rotation, flipping, zooming, etc to achieve generalization and reduce overfitting. The network has been trained and validated with stratified categorical cross-entropy loss and the Adam optimizer which ensures efficient learning and robust performances in the prediction. Other than classification report, confusion matrix, and accuracy, which evaluate the differentiation of the model across different subtypes of leukemia, new images of blood cells are predicted by a prediction algorithm with interpretability confidence scores. This approach shows how deep learning could aid hematologists in making quick and accurate diagnoses in leukemia that improve patient outcomes.

Dataset:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mohammadamireshraghi/blood-cell-cancer-all-4class
